Challenge 1 Point in the Stanford 100 Year Study (545 words)

Narrow AI is a More Useful and Reasonable Form of AI

With the rise in the usage of AI, companies have been exploring the usage of a more abstract AI that could do more general tasks that
humans complete. As a result, companies are pushing towards the improvement of general AI that can be used in various scenarios;
similar to simulating how the human brain functions. The Stanford 100 Year Study states that there has been more desire for general
but I argue that general AI is beyond the reach with the current technology we have and that narrow AI is more practical for human
usage.

Narrow AI are simply easier to implement due to the fact that the task they are accomplishing is usually structured and well defined.
The key difference between narrow AI and general AI is that the goal of narrow AI is to mimic human behavior when doing detailed
tasks. This means that narrow AI is able to enhance the jobs of people by reducing the work needed for mundane and repetitive tasks.
Similar to how we use robots in factories to package goods. Unlike general AI, which serves to replace humans for jobs that require
more common sense such as customer service systems. Tasks like these require more thought and the human brain is no easy device to
replicate. Davidson (2019) claims that scientists were table to replicate a flatworm brain which only consisted of 302 neurons; the
human brain has an estimated 100 billion neurons. This illustrates the scale of what we are trying to replicate. There is also so
much more to a brain than intelligence. Davidson quotes Dr Berlin, stating that subjective and conscious experience are part of
having consciousness. Narrow AI has shown that we can achieve the raw intelligence for certain tasks but how will we deal with tasks
that require other forms of intellect.

The rise of general AI is only recent, meaning that it is still in its early stages. In an article by Larkin (2022), she quotes Dr
Goertzel, the CEO of SingularityNET, who states that the biggest issues lies in sufficient funding for the research and development
of general AI. He further argues that the way narrow AI is implemented contradicts the requirements for general AI, that is, the
adaptability of general AI. Narrow AI is usually coded in a rigid manner that prevents it from being adaptive. In essence, the
amount of money pooled to develop general AI may be pointless and it is something only available in the distant future. The current
usage of AI in the industry is still oriented on structure tasks which may hinder the implementation of a technology that is highly
adaptive.

In conclusion, I believe that general AI is still in its early stages and is not something that is attainable in the near future.
The funding and effort put into it is not as beneficial as focusing on narrow AI that has a greater impact and more practical use
cases. The human brain that general AI tries to simulate is simply too complicated and advanced to be accomplished with the
technology we have today. There is so much more to intelligent thinking than just pure intelligence; the individual would need to
be subjective and have consciousness to take on tasks such as customer support.

